
# Conclusion

A methodology for predicting multiple wind turbine faults in advance by implementing classification algorithms on wind turbine SCADA signals was proposed. 30 months’ worth of SCADA data for a wind farm with 25 turbines was processed and labelled using corresponding downtime data containing turbine categories that describe the condition of the turbine. Since the multiple faults are treated as separate labels, multiclass-multilabel classification algorithms, namely DT, RF and kNN, offered in scikit-learn, the machine learning library for Python, were analysed. In order to predict faults in advance, three types of classes were used: ‘normal’ to indicate normal behaviour, ‘faulty’ to indicate a fault, and ‘X hours before fault’ (where X = 6, 12, …, 48) to detect faults in advance at varying time scales. This will allow predictive maintenance to be done appropriate to the time scale to prevent catastrophic failure to the turbine. Each of these classifiers have hyperparameters which were tuned for optimal performance on the data using five-fold cross-validation. The effects of balancing training data were also investigated.

The use of multilabel-multiclass algorithms allowed for the classification of each turbine to be done using a single estimator which produces the results of all labels simultaneously and has a shorter training time. Of the three classifiers, RF was found to have the best performance overall. A detailed analysis was done on the results for two labels, namely ‘electrical system’, which had the worst performance, and ‘gearbox’ which had relatively better performance. The performance of the ‘X hours before fault’ classes was found to be relatively poor compared to the other two classes. The performance of these classes was slightly better using balanced training data. This has drawbacks, including using separate estimators for each label, and increased training time and use of resources due to the use of larger training data. After evaluating feature importance, it was concluded that the poor performance of these classes could be attributed to the features used or errors in the data. Further work should be done using additional SCADA fields relevant to each label to verify this. After additional improvements to the model and conducting a cost function analysis, the method could be tested in industry.
