\chapter{Introduction}\label{c1}

\section{Background}

There is a need to increase the economic effectiveness of wind turbines, which
refers to the cost to run them relative to the electricity generation, or
revenue \cite{Kim12,Leahy16}. Increasing this effectiveness lowers the payback
period of new wind turbines or farms, thus making wind a more economic clean
energy source, attracting governments and private organisations to make more
investments in wind projects \cite{Kim12}. It can, however, be decreased due
to major component failure, frequent downtime, turbine degradation and age,
which in turn increase the operation and maintenance cost and decrease the
energy generation efficiency of wind turbines \cite{Kim12,Diens16}. There are
difficulties and high costs involved in carrying out maintenance on wind
turbines, especially for ones that operate in extreme and remote conditions,
such as offshore wind farms, where the turbines tend to also exist in larger
numbers \cite{Diens16,Tautz17}.

Condition-based monitoring systems that continuously monitor wind turbine
states increase this effectiveness by significantly reducing the maintenance
costs, reportedly by 20\,\% to 25\.\%, as it prevents unscheduled maintenance
\cite{Leahy16}. According to the Electric Power Research Institute, reactive
maintenance, which refers to running the turbine until it reaches failure, has
the highest cost, followed by preventive or scheduled maintenance, which is
reported to cost 24\,\% less \cite{Wind15}. Meanwhile, condition-based or
predictive maintenance, which prevents catastrophic failure, \cite{Kim12} is
reported to save 47\,\% of the cost of reactive maintenance, \cite{Wind15}
which makes it the most cost-effective and preferred approach. Condition-based
monitoring technologies include sensor-based oil and vibration analysis, which
are useful for checking the oil for properties such as temperature, and
rotating equipment respectively \cite{Garci12}. These technologies, however,
tend to put emphasis on the more expensive parts of a wind turbine such as the
gearbox \cite{Godwi13} due to the high costs involved in the installation of
these sensors \cite{Leahy16,Garci12}. These systems, which can be purchased
from the turbine manufacturer, are usually pre-installed in offshore wind
turbines due to the harsh environments in which they operate. However, they
can be expensive \cite{Tautz17} and uneconomical, especially for older wind
turbines in onshore wind farms, whose outputs are often less than that of an
offshore wind farm.

An alternative would be to use SCADA-based analysis, where the only cost
involved would be computational and expensive sensors are not required
\cite{Leahy16,Tautz17}. A SCADA system, which stands for supervisory control
and data acquisition, found pre-installed in most utility-scale wind turbines,
collects data using numerous sensors at the controllers with usually 10-minute
resolution \cite{Tautz17,Yang14}, of various parameters of the wind turbine,
such as wind speed, active power, bearing temperature and voltage
\cite{Leahy16}. Power curve analysis can be done using this data, but this
analysis only detects wind turbine underperformance \cite{Gill12}. Meanwhile,
implementing machine learning algorithms on SCADA signals to classify them as
having either normal or anomalous behaviour, has the ability to predict faults
in advance. This has been demonstrated in a number of publications.

Kusiak and Li \cite{Kusia11} investigated predicting a specific fault, which
is diverter malfunction. 3 months' worth of SCADA data of four wind turbines
were used and the corresponding status and fault codes were integrated into
this data to be labelled to differentiate between normal and fault points. To
prevent bias in prediction in machine learning, the labelled data is sampled
at random, ensuring the number of samples with a fault code is comparable to
the number of normal samples. Four classification algorithms, namely neural
networks, boosting tree, support vector machines, and classification and
regression trees were trained using two-thirds of this data which was randomly
selected. The boosting tree, which was found to have the highest accuracy of
70\,\% for predicting specific faults, was investigated further. The accuracy
of predicting a specific fault at the time of fault was 70\,\%, which
decreased to 49\,\% for predicting it 1 hour in advance. Only one specific
fault was the focus of this methodology and in reality, wind turbines could
have many faults in different components and structures, which may all have
some form of correlation between one other.

Godwin and Matthews \cite{Godwi13} focussed on wind turbine pitch control
faults using a classifier called the RIPPER algorithm. They used 28 months'
worth of SCADA data containing wind speeds, pitch motor torques and pitch
angles, of eight wind turbines known to have had pitch problems in the past.
The classes used were normal, potential fault and recognised fault. Using
maintenance logs, data up to 48 hours in advance was classed as recognised
fault, data in advance of this with corresponding SCADA alarm logs indicating
pitch problems was classed as potential fault, and the remaining unclassed
data was classed as normal. Random sampling was performed here as well to
balance the classes and prevent bias. The data of four turbines were used to
train the RIPPER algorithm, and the remaining four used for testing. The
analysis was done using the entire 28 months of data as well as 24, 20, 16,
12, 8 and 4 months of data to find out how the amount of data affects the
accuracy of classification. Using the entire 28 months of data was found to
produce the most accurate classifier, with a mean accuracy of 85\,\%. Looking
at the results in more depth, it was found that the classifier had F1 scores,
which is an accuracy measure that accounts for true and false positives and
negatives, of 79\,\%, 100\,\% and 78\,\% in classifying normal, potential
fault and recognised fault data respectively. Although the results are an
improvement to Kusiak and Li \cite{Kusia11}, this methodology similarly
focussed on only one fault.

Leahy et al. \cite{Leahy16} used a specific fault prediction approach,
implementing a support vector machine classifier from scikit-learn's LibSVM.
They used SCADA data from a single 3 MW wind turbine spanning 11 months with
status and warning codes. The labelling was done such that data with codes
corresponding to the turbine in operation, low and storm wind speeds represent
normal conditions and codes corresponding to each specific fault to represent
faulty conditions. Data preceding these fault points by 10 minutes and 60
minutes were also labelled as faults in separate sets and the effects of using
these different time scales to predict faults were investigated. For data
identified as normal, filters were applied to remove curtailment and anomalous
points. The classifier's hyperparameters were optimised using randomised grid
search and validated using ten-fold cross-validation, and the classes were
balanced using class weights. Separate binary classifiers were trained to
detect each specific type of fault, which were faults in air cooling,
excitation, generator heating, feeding and mains failure. The prediction of
generator heating faults 10 minutes in advance had the best results, with F1
scores of 71\,\% and 100\,\% using balanced and imbalanced training data,
respectively. This increase in score using imbalanced data was attributed to
the test set having very few instances with the fault class relative to normal
data. The same fault, when predicted 60 minutes in advance, had F1 scores of
17\,\% and 100\,\% using imbalanced and balanced training data respectively.
Although the score is perfect and it demonstrates the effects of using
balanced datasets, the classification again is done separately for each
specific fault and it performed poorly on other faults. For instance,
detecting excitation faults 10 and 60 minutes in advance using balanced
training data only yielded F1 scores of 8\,\% and 27\,\% respectively.

This project will therefore focus on integrating the ability to predict
multiple faults at different time scales simultaneously.

\section{Objectives}

The first objective of this project is to implement a classification algorithm
on wind turbine SCADA signals to identify underperforming turbines. This
involves setting-up the machine learning environment, processing operational
data and reporting initial results obtained through implementing a
classification algorithm on the data.

The second objective is to create an effective methodology for the integration
of failures and to present and interpret results. This includes labelling the
data such that each specific fault can be differentiated, evaluating the
performances of several classification algorithms to find the most suitable
classifier, identifying limitations and suggesting improvements to the method
and how it can be adapted for use in industry.

\section{Outline}

\autoref{c2} will describe in detail the tools and datasets used, how the data
was processed and labelled and the classification methods and performance
metrics used. In \autoref{c3}, a detailed description of the results obtained
is presented, followed by a discussion of these results and limitations of
this methodology in \autoref{c4}. In \autoref{c5}, conclusions are drawn and
possible areas for future work are recommended.
